# 205 Isomorphic Strings

## Description

Given two strings s and t, determine if they are isomorphic.

Two strings s and t are isomorphic if the characters in s can be replaced to get t.

All occurrences of a character must be replaced with another character while preserving the order of characters. No two characters may map to the same character, but a character may map to itself.

Example 1:

Input: s = "egg", t = "add"

Output: true

Explanation:

The strings s and t can be made identical by:

Mapping 'e' to 'a'.
Mapping 'g' to 'd'.
Example 2:

Input: s = "foo", t = "bar"

Output: false

Explanation:

The strings s and t can not be made identical as 'o' needs to be mapped to both 'a' and 'r'.

Example 3:

Input: s = "paper", t = "title"

Output: true

Constraints:

1 <= s.length <= 5 \* 104
t.length == s.length
s and t consist of any valid ascii character.

## Approach:

To determine if two strings `s` and `t` are isomorphic, we need to ensure that there is a one-to-one mapping between every character in `s` and every character in `t`. This means that each character in `s` can be replaced to get `t`, and no two characters in `s` map to the same character in `t`.

The provided solution uses two dictionaries, `a` and `b`, to keep track of the mapping of characters from `s` to `t` and vice versa. It also uses counters `a_cnt` and `b_cnt` to assign unique codes to each character as they are encountered.

For each character in `s`, if it hasn't been seen before, it is assigned a new code using `a_cnt`, and this code is appended to `s_code`. Similarly, for each character in `t`, a new code is assigned using `b_cnt` and appended to `t_code`.

Finally, the function checks if the generated codes `s_code` and `t_code` are identical. If they are, it means that the strings `s` and `t` are isomorphic, as the pattern of character mapping is consistent between the two strings. If not, the strings are not isomorphic.

```python
def isIsomorphic(self, s: str, t: str) -> bool:
  a, b = {}, {}
  a_cnt, b_cnt = 1, 1
  s_code, t_code = '', ''
  for i in s:
      if i not in a:
          a[i] = a_cnt
          a_cnt += 1
      s_code += '0' + str(a[i])

  for i in t:
      if i not in b:
          b[i] = b_cnt
          b_cnt += 1
      t_code += '0' + str(b[i])
  return s_code == t_code
```

### Complexity Analysis

- Time Complexity: `O(n)`
- Space Complexity: `O(n)`
