# 451 Sort Characters By Frequency

## Description

Given a string s, sort it in decreasing order based on the frequency of the characters. The frequency of a character is the number of times it appears in the string.

Return the sorted string. If there are multiple answers, return any of them.

Example 1:

Input: s = "tree"
Output: "eert"
Explanation: 'e' appears twice while 'r' and 't' both appear once.
So 'e' must appear before both 'r' and 't'. Therefore "eetr" is also a valid answer.
Example 2:

Input: s = "cccaaa"
Output: "aaaccc"
Explanation: Both 'c' and 'a' appear three times, so both "cccaaa" and "aaaccc" are valid answers.
Note that "cacaca" is incorrect, as the same characters must be together.
Example 3:

Input: s = "Aabb"
Output: "bbAa"
Explanation: "bbaA" is also a valid answer, but "Aabb" is incorrect.
Note that 'A' and 'a' are treated as two different characters.

Constraints:

1 <= s.length <= 5 \* 105
s consists of uppercase and lowercase English letters and digits.

## Approach: Heap

We can use a max heap to store character frequencies, ensuring that the character with the highest frequency is always at the top of the heap.

In Python, the heapq module provides a min heap by default. To simulate a max heap, we will store the negative frequencies.

```python
def frequencySort(self, s: str) -> str:
  freq = Counter(s)
  max_heap = []
  for key, val in freq.items():
      heapq.heappush(max_heap, [-val, key])
  res = ''
  for _ in range(len(max_heap)):
      val, key = heapq.heappop(max_heap)
      res += -val * key
  return res
```

### Complexity Analysis

- Time Complexity: `O(k log k)`, where `n` is the length of the string `s` and `k` is the number of unique characters in `s`.
- Space Complexity: `O(n)`, as we store the frequency of each character and the heap can contain up to `k` elements, where `k` is the number of unique characters in `s`.
