# 540 Single Element in a Sorted Array

## Description

You are given a sorted array consisting of only integers where every element appears exactly twice, except for one element which appears exactly once.

Return the single element that appears only once.

Your solution must run in O(log n) time and O(1) space.

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,1,2,3,3,4,4,8,8]
Output: 2
Example 2:

Input: nums = [3,3,7,7,10,11,11]
Output: 10

Constraints:

1 <= nums.length <= 105
0 <= nums[i] <= 105

## Approach: Brute Force

In this approach, we iterate through the sorted array and for each element, we compare it with its neighboring elements (the one before and the one after) to determine if it is the unique element. This method requires `O(n)` runtime because it involves examining each element in the array sequentially.

## Approach: Binary Search

We can use a binary search to efficiently find the unique element in the array. The array can be divided into three parts: `[left part], [middle element], [right part]`.

Given that every element appears exactly twice except for one, the total length of the array is `2n + 1`, where `n` is the number of pairs.

The left and right parts of the array will have the same length, `n`.

- If `n` is odd:

  - If the middle element is the same as the element before it, the unique element must be in the right part.
  - Otherwise, the unique element is in the left part.

- If `n` is even:
  - If the middle element is the same as the element before it, the unique element must be in the left part.
  - Otherwise, it is in the right part.

If the middle element is different from both its preceding and succeeding elements, then the middle element itself is the unique element.

```python
def singleNonDuplicate(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
    left, right = 0, len(nums) - 1
    while left < right:
        mid = left + (right - left) // 2
        odd = mid % 2
        if nums[mid] != nums[mid - 1] and nums[mid] != nums[mid + 1]:
            return nums[mid]
        elif odd == 1:
            if nums[mid] == nums[mid - 1]:
                left = mid + 1
            else:
                right = mid
        else:
            if nums[mid] == nums[mid - 1]:
                right = mid
            else:
                left = mid + 1
    return nums[right]
```

## Time Complexity

- Time Complexity: `O(logn)`
- Space Complexity: `O(1)`
