# 75 Sort Colors

## Description

[Problem: 75 Sort Colors](https://leetcode.com/problems/sort-colors)

Given an array nums with n objects colored red, white, or blue, sort them in-place so that objects of the same color are adjacent, with the colors in the order red, white, and blue.

We will use the integers 0, 1, and 2 to represent the color red, white, and blue, respectively.

You must solve this problem without using the library's sort function.

## Mistake

```python
def sortColors(self, nums: List[int]) -> None:
    """
    Do not return anything, modify nums in-place instead.
    """
    dic = {0 : 0, 1 : 0, 2 : 0}
    for n in nums:
        dic[n] += 1
    i = 0
    for n in range(dic.get(0)):
        nums[i] = 0
        i += 1
    for n in range(dic.get(1)):
        nums[i] = 1
        i += 1
    for n in range(dic.get(2)):
        nums[i] = 2
        i += 1
```

The follow-up requires a one-pass algorithm with constant extra space. The above solution requires two passes: one for counting the elements and another for placing them back into the array.

Note: above algorithm called counting sort

## optimal solution

This problem known as Dutch national flag algorithm, involving sorting the array by partitioning it into 3 segments.

`nums[0] ... nums[low - 1]` This part should consist of all zeros
`nums[low] ... nums[mid - 1]` This part should consist of all ones
`nums[mid] ... nums[high]` This par should consist of all twos

We will use mid to loop over the array

There are three cases:

- If `mid == 0`, swap it with `low`, and increase both `low` and `mid`.
- If `mid == 1`, increase `mid` because `1` is already in the correct position.
- If `mid == 2`, swap it with `high`, and decrease `high`. Do not increase `mid` yet since we still need to check the value just swapped.

### Complexity Analysis

- Time Complexity: `O(n)`
- Space Complexity: `O(1)`
