# 81 Search in Rotated Sorted Array II

## Description

There is an integer array nums sorted in non-decreasing order (not necessarily with distinct values).

Before being passed to your function, nums is rotated at an unknown pivot index k (0 <= k < nums.length) such that the resulting array is [nums[k], nums[k+1], ..., nums[n-1], nums[0], nums[1], ..., nums[k-1]] (0-indexed). For example, [0,1,2,4,4,4,5,6,6,7] might be rotated at pivot index 5 and become [4,5,6,6,7,0,1,2,4,4].

Given the array nums after the rotation and an integer target, return true if target is in nums, or false if it is not in nums.

You must decrease the overall operation steps as much as possible.

Example 1:

Input: nums = [2,5,6,0,0,1,2], target = 0
Output: true
Example 2:

Input: nums = [2,5,6,0,0,1,2], target = 3
Output: false

Constraints:

1 <= nums.length <= 5000
-104 <= nums[i] <= 104
nums is guaranteed to be rotated at some pivot.
-104 <= target <= 104

Follow up: This problem is an extension of the Search in Rotated Sorted Array, with the added complexity that `nums` may contain duplicate values. This presence of duplicates can affect the runtime complexity. Let's explore how and why.

## Approach: Brute Force

In the brute force approach, we iterate through the entire array to check if the target value exists. This method has a time complexity of `O(n)` because we may need to examine each element in the array.

## Approach: Binary Search

The binary search approach is similar to the one used in the Search in Rotated Sorted Array, but with the added challenge of handling duplicates in `nums`.

Consider an array like `[1, 0, 1, 1, 1]`. In such cases, we cannot determine if the array is sorted by simply comparing the leftmost and middle values, as duplicates can obscure the sorted order.

Therefore, when `nums[left] == nums[mid] == nums[right]`, we cannot decide which half of the array is sorted. The only option is to increment the `left` pointer by 1 (`left + 1`) and decrement the `right` pointer by 1 (`right - 1`) to potentially bypass the duplicates and continue the search.

```python
def search(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> bool:
  left, right = 0, len(nums) - 1
  while left <= right:
      mid = left + (right - left) // 2
      if nums[mid] == target:
          return True
      elif nums[left] == nums[mid] and nums[mid] == nums[right]:
          left += 1
          right -= 1
      elif nums[left] <= nums[mid]:
          # left side sorted
          if nums[left] <= target < nums[mid]:
              right = mid - 1
          else:
              left = mid + 1
      else:
          if nums[mid] < target <= nums[right]:
              left = mid + 1
          else:
              right = mid - 1
  return False
```

## Time Complexity

- Time Complexity: `O(n)`
- Space Complexity: `O(1)`
