# 875 Koko Eating Bananas

Koko loves to eat bananas. There are n piles of bananas, the ith pile has piles[i] bananas. The guards have gone and will come back in h hours.

Koko can decide her bananas-per-hour eating speed of k. Each hour, she chooses some pile of bananas and eats k bananas from that pile. If the pile has less than k bananas, she eats all of them instead and will not eat any more bananas during this hour.

Koko likes to eat slowly but still wants to finish eating all the bananas before the guards return.

Return the minimum integer k such that she can eat all the bananas within h hours.

Example 1:

Input: piles = [3,6,7,11], h = 8
Output: 4
Example 2:

Input: piles = [30,11,23,4,20], h = 5
Output: 30
Example 3:

Input: piles = [30,11,23,4,20], h = 6
Output: 23

Constraints:

1 <= piles.length <= 104
piles.length <= h <= 109
1 <= piles[i] <= 109

## Approach: Brute Force

In the brute force approach, we start with an eating speed `k` of 1 and incrementally increase it. For each value of `k`, we check if Koko can finish eating all the bananas within `h` hours. We continue this process until we find the smallest `k` that allows Koko to finish on time.

## Approach: Binary Search

In the binary search approach, we set our initial search range with `left` as 1 and `right` as the maximum number of bananas in any pile. We then calculate the middle value `mid` of this range, which represents a potential eating speed. We check if Koko can finish all the bananas at this speed within `h` hours. If she can, it means we might be able to find a smaller feasible speed, so we adjust our search range by setting `right` to `mid - 1`. If she cannot, it means the speed is too slow, so we adjust by setting `left` to `mid + 1`. We continue this process until we find the minimum speed `k` that allows Koko to finish eating all the bananas within the given time.

```python
def minEatingSpeed(self, piles: List[int], h: int) -> int:
    left, right = 1, max(piles)
    result = float('inf')
    while left <= right:
        mid = left + (right - left) // 2
        curr = 0
        for p in piles:
            curr += math.ceil(p / mid)
        if curr <= h:
            result = min(result, mid)
            right = mid - 1
        else:
            left = mid + 1
    return result
```

## Time Complexity

- Time Complexity: `O(n)` since maximum number of bananas in any pile
- Space Complexity: `O(1)`
