#88 Merge Sorted Array

## Description

You are given two integer arrays nums1 and nums2, sorted in non-decreasing order, and two integers m and n, representing the number of elements in nums1 and nums2 respectively.

Merge nums1 and nums2 into a single array sorted in non-decreasing order.

The final sorted array should not be returned by the function, but instead be stored inside the array nums1. To accommodate this, nums1 has a length of m + n, where the first m elements denote the elements that should be merged, and the last n elements are set to 0 and should be ignored. nums2 has a length of n.

Example 1:

Input: nums1 = [1,2,3,0,0,0], m = 3, nums2 = [2,5,6], n = 3
Output: [1,2,2,3,5,6]
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [1,2,3] and [2,5,6].
The result of the merge is [1,2,2,3,5,6] with the underlined elements coming from nums1.
Example 2:

Input: nums1 = [1], m = 1, nums2 = [], n = 0
Output: [1]
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [1] and [].
The result of the merge is [1].
Example 3:

Input: nums1 = [0], m = 0, nums2 = [1], n = 1
Output: [1]
Explanation: The arrays we are merging are [] and [1].
The result of the merge is [1].
Note that because m = 0, there are no elements in nums1. The 0 is only there to ensure the merge result can fit in nums1.

Constraints:

nums1.length == m + n
nums2.length == n
0 <= m, n <= 200
1 <= m + n <= 200
-109 <= nums1[i], nums2[j] <= 109

Follow up: Can you come up with an algorithm that runs in O(m + n) time?

Approach:

Initialize two pointers, `p1` and `p2`, at positions `m-1` and `n-1` respectively. These pointers will track the current elements being compared in `nums1` and `nums2`. Additionally, use a pointer `p` starting at `m + n - 1` to place elements into the correct position in `nums1`.

While both `p1` and `p2` are greater than or equal to zero, compare the elements at these positions. Place the larger element at position `p` in `nums1`, then decrement the respective pointer (`p1` or `p2`) and `p`.

If `nums1` is exhausted (`p1` < 0), copy the remaining elements from `nums2` into `nums1`. If `nums2` is exhausted (`p2` < 0), the remaining elements in `nums1` are already in place.

```python
def merge(self, nums1: List[int], m: int, nums2: List[int], n: int) -> None:
  """
  Do not return anything, modify nums1 in-place instead.
  """
  p1, p2 = m - 1, n - 1
  p = m + n - 1
  while p >= 0:
      if p1 >= 0 and p2 >= 0:
          if nums1[p1] > nums2[p2]:
              nums1[p] = nums1[p1]
              p -= 1
              p1 -= 1
          else:
              nums1[p] = nums2[p2]
              p -= 1
              p2 -= 1
      elif p1 < 0:
          nums1[p] = nums2[p2]
          p -= 1
          p2 -= 1
      else:
          nums1[p] = nums1[p1]
          p -= 1
          p1 -= 1
```

### Complexity Analysis

- Time Complexity: `O(n + m)`
- Space Complexity: `O(1)`
